welcome to another video guys today I'm
pretty excited because this is a really
cool little accessory to use with your
Arduino this is a very small they listed
as a point nine six inch screen it looks
a little bigger than that to make
diagonal measure but anyways it's a very
small little screen it's very
inexpensive
I paid six dollars and twenty-five cents
for this one shipped and that was from a
u.s. seller wasn't a Chinese seller I'll
put a link down to I'll write it down
right now
put a link to it down below link to
screen alright and the resolution on
this little guy is crazy it you get 128
by 128 by 64 resolution that's a lot of
pixels to play around with so and it's
also I squared C and there's no
backlight or anything like that and it's
a beautiful little display so I'm very
excited to find this and I want to share
it with everyone show you exactly how to
set it up quickly and easily and get up
and running with it so let's go ahead
and go let's go and take a look at the
screen first you can see very simple in
the front and then the only pins we have
VCC ground s CL SDA and then here's the
backside it's got some resistors and
stuff like that but yeah not a whole lot
to it right not a whole lot to it we're
all we're gonna use are these little
dupont cables these a female on one end
male on the other end we're not even
gonna use a breadboard for this so let's
go ahead and open up arduino ide and i I
took any any libraries that that I
needed for this you know to make this
work I took them off of my IDE so I
could show you exactly how to install
them and up above where I'll just click
on tools and then manage libraries
there's two libraries to install I'll
list them down below - just in case you
have to do a manual insult one of them
is Adafruit SSD and it shipped complete
the rest of it yeah that's SSD 1306 OLED
Driver library so we'll click install
for that and it's already done and then
the other library we don't need it for
today's video but you'll want to have it
on your in your IDE for later because
it's absolutely necessary to program
it's got a lot of like really good
graphics functions and stuff you can use
with dole and as a matter of fact we're
gonna devote at least one video if not
two to this graphics library later
alrighty
yeah adafruit gfx library by Adafruit so
yeah a little more freed from Adafruit
she did a really good job on those they
are awesome
I didn't buy my display from her but
they do sell them I'll put a link in
case you want to support them I'll put a
link to a two fruits displays - they
cost more as a matter of fact I should
probably buy one because of all the work
they put in to this open source software
if they share with everyone so yeah so
those are those are both installed but
as usual I mentioned this before if I go
to libraries here on the Mac they're not
here yet so what you have to do you have
to close the IDE up and then you reopen
it
and now it's gonna be there okay
now if we go open we'll see libraries
and here are the two libraries we just
installed so super easy to install those
now there is one other thing we're gonna
have to do all right and I'm gonna
scratch out that code because we're
gonna use this little blank window here
I did a video on this before how to find
out the address of your I squared C
device using Arduino IDE so you may want
to refresh yourself if you don't already
know this is gonna tell us what the
device address is of this display but
before we do that we need to hook it up
right
so it's this hookup is super easy I'm
gonna use red there's there's voltage
let's turn it this way okay VCC is the
first pen so I'm going to use red for
that one
okay and then ground it's the next pin
which I'm gonna make brown because
that's what's here I don't have a black
one on this little group of cables all
right and then I'll just put these on
whatever order they want to go on you
should back out a little bit yes I'll
tell you what I'll line them up like
this things kind of stiff now I'll just
make sure I'm a VCC and ground are
correct the SCL is gonna be orange SDA
is yellow that's all I need to know so
well I still remember I'll hook that up
and that just goes right here at the end
SCL and SDA yes I said SCL is orange
Seren yep SCL is orange SDA is yellow
[Music]
hmm there we go those are in and then we
just need to connect our voltage and our
ground right here that's it
all four connected now so I had to go
ahead and do that real quick because
we're gonna run this little sketch to
figure out what the the address of our
devices so if you go to my video you
click here I put up a little blog post
with the code actually in it there's
other plays you can get the code too
I'll put it there just to keep it handy
all right go I'll just copy that and
then we'll paste it in here and then
we'll upload it
okay sketches upload and then we just
got to go to tools and then the serial
monitor and you'll see it tells this I
squared C scanner I squared C device
found that address 0 X 3 C 0 X 3 C so
I'm gonna write that down
and then we'll close that out and then
we'll actually open well actually go to
libraries and then SSD 1306 and we're
pretty much done now y'all except for
one more little thing and they have
several different models you can choose
from here we're gonna choose SSD 1306
128 by 64 I squared C that's what we're
using and then we just have to change
the address in this code so it has
screen with screen height that's all set
correctly
it's including the graphics and the SSD
1306 libraries and then let's see ok the
only thing we have to change is right
here SSD 1306 switch a PVC C 0 X 3d we
got to make that 3 C because that's the
address of our of our device and yours
may be different let's upload it and
before I upload it let me zoom in
actually I'll do a verify to while I'm
zooming in here I think this is just a
gorgeous gorgeous display I love it
okay
alright looks like you verified fine
we'll upload and watch the show
this is pretty exciting though because I
mean for $6.25 you have a canvas 128 by
64 to do graphics on and you can do a
lot with the with that many pixels it's
still uploading it's a big sketch the
video is flickering some here in real
life it doesn't flicker that's some kind
of frequency refresh rate something
another but they're just showing some
different graphics functions that are
available there now I've actually used
that graphics library before it's pretty
good it's gonna show some animations and
these animations are really pretty easy
to do actually did a o'clock before like
a clock face with it with a clock face
with sweeping second hand and stuff like
that but yeah these these animations are
cool and you can do all this with that
Adafruit graphics library it makes it
really easy and there's her logo and
then there's her logo a bunch of times
that's not a horrible refresh rate for
just a little microcontroller to draw on
the screen right that's not bad not bad
at all it's very reminiscent of the old
vintage micro computers although I did
look it up because I couldn't remember
this does have about half the resolution
of life - Apple - in the Commodore 64
but look how small it is and it's
actually high risk because of the size
but yeah guys that is it find out the
address of your of your thing here where
you hook it up just like we did here
find out the address of your device and
then install those two libraries and
you're good to go
up y'all got a little something out of
this see y'all next time
bye bye